---
layout: post
title: Ordinary WWW users, IE and Google Chrome
date: 2008-09-05
comments: false
page: 2008/09/ordinary-www-users-ie-and-google-chrome.html

---

<div>In the article <a href="http://ostatic.com/172338-blog/google-chrome-winners-and-losers">Google Chrome: Winners and Loosers</a> a nice overview is given.</div><div>Excerpt:</div><div><blockquote></blockquote><span class="Apple-style-span" style="color: rgb(38, 38, 38); font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px; "><strong style="font-style: normal; font-weight: bold; "></strong></span></div><blockquote><div><span class="Apple-style-span" style="color: rgb(38, 38, 38); font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px; "><strong style="font-style: normal; font-weight: bold; ">Microsoft</strong>: Neutral, potential winner. Chrome may well be technically superior to IE8 when they both ship - but in terms of market share, <em style="font-weight: normal; font-style: italic; ">that won't matter</em>. We already have a browser that's technically superior to the Microsoft offerings; in fact, we have several. They haven't succeeded in seriously diminishing IE's crushing market share in most niches. Looking at the fact that 25% of IE users are on IE6, you can see the overwhelming advantage that being part of Windows XP gives to that browser. Microsoft could even win from the release of Chrome, if Google ties the browser too closely with their other offerings and Microsoft can interest antitrust regulators in taking another run at the "bundling" theory.</span><br /></div><div></div></blockquote><div><span class="Apple-style-span" style="color: rgb(38, 38, 38); font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;"><br /></span></div><div>+2 more cents:</div>I do not agree about MS being neutral. You see - Firefox doesn't have souch as loud name as Google has. Secondly: FF is today, but where it will be tommorow? Who knows? I am more confident about Google and MS. So. What I am trying to tell. Do You know all those enterprise users with [f*] technical support (I mean IE6 only). I think they would rather move on Google Chrome (then it would become stable) than move to the FF. Thirdly: Opera aims to be the mobile one, not desktop oriented (due the failure at this area). FF aims to be the most advanced one, with plenty of plugins and features (for advanced users + developers). And what about ordinary Users? They just want easy to use browser with clean interface. That's all. And there comes IE8 and Google Chrome (Safari too, on Mac platfom)
