---
layout: post
title: Clamour and stir around Servlet 3.0 Draft
date: 2008-06-03
comments: false
permalink: 2008/06/clamour-and-stir-around-servlet-30.html
tags: [jsp, "servlet-3.0"]
---

<div style="text-align: justify;">So, Servlet 3.0 Specification (<a href="http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=315">JSR-315</a>) is now being in discussion topic.<br />It appears different people feel different about the spec proposal, but the majority of them agree in one point - 3.0 spec should be more strong-type centric and much more annotation agnostic/less centric.<br /><br />What brought me in this discussion and based on that I am making assumptions about people attitude? Great <a href="http://java.dzone.com/articles/reviewing-early-draft-servlet-">article about spec draft version</a> appeared on my RSS feed and a lot of people took a word in discussion and different points of view appeared on  the horizon.<br /><br />What's in the end? What the conclusion to make? The silent thoughts in my heads:<br /></div><ul style="text-align: justify;"><li>JSR has become more public stuff than ever. People are wrapping their heads around the proposals and try to give fair run/evaluation of it.</li><li>In spite of the growing <span style="font-style: italic;">Dynamic Language community</span> - it crowd :) doesn't like the idea of loosing strong typing benefits and refactoring possibilities.</li><li>No one likes the idea of looking in two places (web.xml and POJOS) instead of just one. <blockquote>Imagine the situation Your application is built on top of the N jars. Each of them  could contain annotations like that @Servlet etc. And some of them might be stacks You are highly dependent off - like Axis or smth. What It would be like. I suppose - It would be  not as easy to   switch @Servlet annotation auto discovery for *pattern1*.jar libraries and to switch it on for the another *pattern2*.jar.<br /></blockquote><blockquote>Another question - would it resolve all the annotation in all the libraries I will deploy in WEB-INF/lib? If so - I do know exactly how they imagine that. Personally I don't know all the internals of all the ten/tons of the libraries I add to the classpath or are added through framework I use (for example Seam/Wicket..) - So, how would I control any memory/security flaws if any?<br /></blockquote></li></ul><ul style="text-align: justify;"><li>People try to use it. It's wonderful. Because inconsistencies are found and they could be worked through if community will insist on it. (See <a href="http://java.dzone.com/articles/reviewing-early-draft-servlet-">article</a> - @Servlet and @Filter inconsistence sample)<br /></li></ul><br />My personal opinion on JSR:<br /><ul><li><a href="http://cometd.com/">Cometd</a> support is <span style="font-weight: bold;">MUST HAVE</span>. Yes, Jetty and friends have built-in support, but all we java developers like standardized way to do  things (things must be done  <span style="font-style: italic;">right</span> in order not to rewrite the entire solution from time to time - just to deploy on another AS/hosting service. So, it's GREAT things like this are coming into Servlets API, allowing to get benefits and efficiency of the WEB2.0 in the <span style="font-style: italic;">"standard"</span> way.<br /></li><li>Registering servlets via annotations not with verbose XML - could be nice feature for testing purposes. Personally I don't like the idea of maintaining one more web.xml or smth just for running my unit-test-cycle.  At the same time - it could be enchantment to make some embedded lightweight clean solution to serve some javadoc or smth with 2/3 java classes and without any web.xml required. But - it isn't EE anyway.<br /></li><li>Servlet/Filter mappings etc voa annotations - is a feature nice to have without any extra complaining (if mapping parameters could be mapped in the verbose xml file)<br /></li><li>Lack of Strong typing or forcing it - is <span style="font-weight: bold;">BAD BAD BAD. </span>Nothing will be automatically checked in compile/development time (intellectual IDEs aren't the solution, they are work around. And.. No all the developers have them as well on all the target/host/dev environment). I believe - things like @Get should be removed from draft (or explicitly explained - why so and and why this way. Possible answer could be - to make integration with <span style="font-style: italic;">Dynamical Language stack</span> a little bit easier. But - it's not worth to make life for the ordinary JEE much more harder).<br /></li></ul>
