---
layout: post
title: "HOW-TO: propertyset-storage-toolkit - Jira configuration data storage made easy"
date: 2010-12-12
comments: false
permalink: 2010/12/how-to-propertyset-storage-toolkit-jira.html

---

<b>Q:</b> What is your favorite type of job? Atlassian Plugin SDK? <b>A:</b> Sure!<br /><b>Q:</b> How exactly you like to code? <b>A:</b> As little as possibe!<br /><br />Here it comes -&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/leonardinius/propertyset-storage-toolkit">propertyset-storage-toolkit</a>&nbsp;with as bare minimal API set as it could be.<br /><br />Let's see what the standard project for me as Jira plugin developer is? The answer probably would be - to make this thing A, that thing B and yeah, almost forgot - to make this configurable, there definitely should be a switch et cetera and this should be administration UI dialog.<br /><br />And yeah, there are a lots of data persistence options available, but they all too complic-API-cated. So after&nbsp;scratching&nbsp;my head several times I remembered one piece of code I've written before while being employed &nbsp; by some company and decided to re-implement the idea from the scratch on my own and to use in my current project&nbsp;assignment.<br /><br />So, to illustrate how EASY is to do plugin configuration from now on, see the code snippet below<br /><pre><code class="java"><br />private final StorageService storageService; // IoC by framework via Constructor Dependency Injection<br /> ...<br /><br /> // data fields<br /> private boolean adminOnly;<br /> private String helloText;<br /> private String welcomeText;<br /><br /> private StorageFacade getStorage()<br /> {<br />     return storageService.actionStorage(this);<br /> }<br /><br /><br /> private void loadConfig(StorageFacade storage)<br /> {<br />     setAdminOnly(storage.getBoolean(ADMIN_ONLY));<br />     setHelloText(StringUtils.defaultString(storage.getString(HELLO_TEXT), <br />         "Hello, "));<br />     setWelcomeText(StringUtils<br />         .defaultString(storage.getString(WELCOME_TEXT), "World"));<br /> }<br /><br /> private void saveConfig(StorageFacade storage)<br /> {<br />     storage.setBoolean(ADMIN_ONLY, isAdminOnly());<br />     storage.setString(HELLO_TEXT, getHelloText());<br />     storage.setString(WELCOME_TEXT, getWelcomeText());<br /> }<br /></code></pre><br />And voila, it's as easy as this, no strings attached. <br /><br />Please take a look into&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/leonardinius/propertyset-storage-toolkit/blob/master/README.md">README</a> file for more details.<br /><br />And, please, do not shy to contact me in case of any problems, issues, thoughts or comments. Your feedback is always appreciated. <br /><br />See ya ;)
